You're gonna need to install Golang, 1.2
or higher preferably, or 1.21 or higher.
You can Google install Golang,
it's pretty straightforward.
And you should really also install Air.
Air is really easy, just copy and
paste this line right here.
And it will just make things
work out very, very easily.
Also make sure you have the Go-LSP.
Again, life is just easier
if you have an LSP.
I don't know how VS code does LSP.
So if you're using VS code, I'm sure it
will just tell you how to install it.
But if you're using Vim,
make sure you get Go, please.
And then I have just a little quick set
of things you're gonna want to execute to
just get everything up and running.
If you're completely unfamiliar with Go,
I'm gonna move faster than
completely unfamiliar.
But you can most certainly
read the code very easy.
And all the code will be on the Internet.
I'm not sure if I pushed it up or not.
I could get it pushed up pretty quickly.
It's pretty straightforward language.
Go is an easily,
if you have any experience coding,
you can pretty much read
the language off the rip.
It is about as simple as
a language as one can get.
And it's the reason why I chose it for
this workshop.
I really wanted to use Rust or OCaml, but
it's just way harder to convince
a group of people to follow along
when you're using not the simplest
C based language possible.
Okay, everybody,
if you can clone down this project,
I give us just a little bit of a base
template that has a couple things in it,
including just the Air script that's
just it makes life pretty easy.
All right, awesome, so everyone's there.
I probably need to also do that so
I'm just gonna do that,
do the exact same thing, fantastic.
Sometimes you're gonna, hey,
hey, hey, it didn't go through.
Did I not, well, whatever,
go, There we go, fantastic.
And we can even go mod
tidy if you need to.
It's kind of nice to do, look at that.
It already has some things
already installed for me.
I shouldn't have anything installed for
me, whatever.
That's fine enough,
I shouldn't be installing anything things.
Quick notes, we're gonna be
going through this pretty quick.
I've added some intentional failure cases
so we can kinda debug what's happening and
kinda discover how HTMX works.
There are some intentional moments where
you're supposed to feel confused or
you're supposed to not
like what's happening.
I want you actively engaged.
Please take the time to guess
why things are not working.
Please open up the Chrome debugger,
if you can keep up, it would be very,
very good, and I may mess up and
accidentally program the right thing.
And if that happens, I'm sorry,
we can back it up and
I can try to program the wrong
thing to begin with.
But if we do it on,
if we do good, I'm sorry.
That's just part of it.
And of course, you will forget everything
that you've learned up until now to be
able to be successful with HTMX.
If you try to build an HTMX application
like you'd build a React application,
you'll be upset.
Just like if you try to build a React
application with HTMX knowledge,
you will be upset.
Use any tool the wrong way and
it becomes a mess pretty quickly.
So we will be using URLs today, I know.
They will be used, they will be important,
we may even add query
parameters to change behavior.
We will even be using status codes.
This will not be happening today, okay?
This is not an option.
There will be no 200s with
a 400 inside of the body.
This is just not a thing.
I know this will be difficult.
Some of you may get a little scared,
I'm sorry.
We'll be even using HTTP verbs,
get, post, and delete.
We're not doing any updates,
but they're not too hard.
If you know how to do a delete,
you know how to do an update.
We will use as little
dependencies as possible.
That's actually why I chose Go, is that I
also don't have to tell you 900 things to
go and install as far as libraries
we'll be using Go templating, so
it's already internal item.
The only real dependency we'll have is
just a server which we'll be using Echo,
which appears to be the simplest possible
server I can find, and that's it.
So I wanted this course to be about HTMX,
not about other texts,
it's really not even about Go.
It just happens to use Go.